.TH man 1 "23 May 2013" "0.2" "vbkick man page"
.SH NAME
vbkick - the automatic Virtualbox Guests and/or Vagrant base boxes builder.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI vbkick " ACTION VM_NAME "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
vbkick is easy in use and free bash script (with enabled POSIX mode). It automate/simplify Virtualbox Guest and Vagrant base box build process (only 1-2 actions are needed). New Virtual machine is describe as a code in \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file.
Task is mostly about running VBoxManage command in proper order with proper options. Uses also ssh and scp commands to complete the job.
.PP
Kickstart and postinstall files are serve to VM via local webserver started in background.
.PP
vbkick is supported by \fIconvert_2_scancode.py\fP tool, which help enter key-strokes into a VirtualBox guest programmatically from the host.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B build
Builds a new Virtualbox Guest from given \fIdefinition.cfg\fP. definition.cfg file must exist in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B postinstall 
Run defined postinstall scripts via SSH on Virtualbox Guest. \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B export
Exports Virtualbox Guest as a Vagrant base box (base image for a future VMs) - \fIVM_NAME.box\fP gzipped file is created.
.TP
.B destroy
Remove virtual machine from Virtualbox. Doing this will also remove the files containing the machine's virtual hard disks if they are not in use by another machine. 
.TP
.SH FILES
.PP
/usr/local/bin/vbkick and /usr/local/bin/convert_2_scancode.py
.SH SEE ALSO
vboxmanage(1) bash(1) ssh(1) scp(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Kamil Wilas (wilas.pl)
.SH COPYRIGHT
vbkick is distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE file in https://github.com/wilas/vbkick for details.
.PP
The site includes also usage examples and other docs which are not covered by this manual page.
