.TH man 1 "22 October 2013" "0.6" "vbkick man page"
.SH NAME
vbkick - the automatic Virtualbox Guests and/or Vagrant base boxes builder.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI vbkick " ACTION VM_NAME (DEFINITION_FILE_NAME)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
vbkick is easy in use and free bash script (with enabled POSIX mode). It automate/simplify Virtualbox Guest and Vagrant base box build process (only 1-2 actions are needed). New Virtual machine is describe as a code in \fIdefinition.cfg\fP (DEFINITION_FILE_NAME) file.
Task is mostly about running VBoxManage command in proper order with proper options. Uses also ssh and scp commands to complete the job.
.PP
Kickstart and postinstall files are serve to VM via local webserver started in background.
.PP
vbkick is supported by \fIconvert_2_scancode.py\fP tool, which help enter key-strokes into a VirtualBox guest programmatically from the host.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B build
Builds a new Virtualbox Guest from given \fIdefinition.cfg\fP. The definition.cfg file must exist in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B postinstall 
Run defined postinstall scripts via SSH on the Virtualbox Guest. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B validate 
Run defined features scripts via SSH on the Virtualbox Guest. Check whether new VM Guest has expected behaviour. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B export
Exports the Virtualbox Guest as a Vagrant base box (base image for a future VMs) - \fIVM_NAME.box\fP gzipped file is created. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B update
Updates attached VBoxGuestAdditions iso and runs defined update scripts via SSH on the Virtualbox Guest. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B destroy
Remove the guest machine from Virtualbox. Doing this will also remove the files containing the machine's virtual hard disks if they are not in use by another machine. 
.TP
.B ssh
SSH to the guest machine with same ssh options like postinstall/validate/update. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.B on
Turn on the guest machine.
.TP
.B shutdown
Turn off the guest machine using shutdown command via ssh. If this fail then the acpipower button is used and if necessery the poweroff button. The \fIdefinition.cfg\fP file is required in directory where command is run.
.TP
.SH FILES
.PP
/usr/local/bin/vbkick and /usr/local/bin/convert_2_scancode.py
.SH SEE ALSO
vboxmanage(1) bash(1) ssh(1) scp(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Kamil Wilas (wilas.pl)
.SH COPYRIGHT
vbkick is distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE file in https://github.com/wilas/vbkick for details.
.PP
The site includes also usage examples and other docs which are not covered by this manual page.
